////
.. title: Keynote Speakers
.. type: text
////

[[GenAshley]]
== Gen Ashley

=== Diversity & Inclusivity in Tech

image:/images/2018/Keynotes/genAshley.jpeg[Gen Ashley image, width=250, float=right]

Wednesday 2018-04-11T09:30+01:00

==== Blurb

TBN

==== Bio

Gen is the Director of https://www.womenwhocode.com/[Women Who Code London] and is a very active leader in
the tech community in London. Aside from her involvement with Women Who Code she is a Lead for
https://www.womentechmakers.com/[Google Women Techmakers London], https://2017.spaceappschallenge.org/[NASA
Space Apps Challenge London] and https://twittercommunity.com/[Twitter Developer Community London].  She is
also part of the leadership committee for http://adaslist.co/[Ada's List] (a network for women in
technology). She is co-organiser of http://coedco.de/[COED:CODE],
http://www.opentechschool.org/[OpenTechSchool London] and London Game Developers. She was the Head of
Developer Outreach at Skills Matter and a former VP/Business Development Manager/Project Manager at
Citigroup. In 2016 Gen helped lead Anita Borg Institute London and was actively instrumental in delivering
the very first 1-Day Grace Hopper Conference in Europe which was held in London.


[[HadiHariri]]
== Hadi Hariri

=== Kotlin/Native – Embracing existing ecosystems

image:/images/2018/Keynotes/hadiHariri.png[Hadi Hariri image, width=250, float=right]

Thursday 2018-04-12T09:30+01:00

==== Blurb

Kotlin is a language that has been around on the JVM for a number of years, and over time has gained
popularity. Its adoption by Android developers has given way for Google to announce official support for the
language. But Kotlin goes beyond the JVM and Android. It also targets JavaScript and Native. The latter
opens the door up to multiple platforms including iOS, macOS, Windows, and Linux.

Of course, when talking native, the de facto language is C. It’s widely used, known by all and an industry
standard. What can Kotlin possibly bring to the table that might entice someone to use it? In this talk
we’re going to take a look at Kotlin and see why its focus on embracing existing platforms and providing
smooth interoperability, along with the conciseness and readability of the language can lead to an
attractive option for those developing native applications.

==== Bio

Developer and creator of many things OSS, his passions includes Web Development and Software
Architecture. Has authored a couple of books, a few courses and has been speaking at industry events for
over 15 years. Host to Talking Kotlin, he works at JetBrains leading the Developer Advocacy team, and spends
as much time as he can writing code.


[[LisaLippincott]]
== Lisa Lippincott

=== The Shape of a Program

Friday 2018-04-13T09:30+01:00

image:/images/2018/Keynotes/lisaLippincott.jpeg[Lisa Lippincott image, width=250, float=right]


==== Blurb

When we talk about programs, we often use metaphors of space: we speak of connection and separation, of
paths and boundaries, of areas and lengths. We clearly have some intuition that sees a program as a shape.

In this talk, I will take this intuition seriously, applying topology, the fundamental mathematics of
space. I will show how a program can be mathematically described as a shape ― a bitopological manifold ―
arranging actions and capabilities in a frame of time, space, causality, and possibility.

No previous knowledge of topology will be assumed.

==== Bio

Lisa Lippincott designed the software architectures of Tanium and BigFix, two systems for managing large
fleets of computers. She's also a language nerd, and has contributed to arcane parts of the {cpp}
standard. In her spare time, she studies mathematical logic, and wants to make computer-checked proofs of
correctness a routine part of programming.


[[SebRose]]
== Seb Rose

=== Software development – learning to walk again

image:/images/2018/Keynotes/sebRose.jpeg[Seb Rose image, width=250, float=right]

Saturday 2018-04-14T16:30+01:00

==== Blurb

Software development seems to advance at an ever increasing pace.  However, lurking under the surface of
relentless progress, I believe there is a rich strata of continuity. In this session we will explore these
foundational aspects of our trade - informally and illustrated by some pretty pictures.

The first article I wrote for an ACCU journal was in 2003 (https://accu.org/index.php/articles/363) where I
drew an awkward analogy between software projects and building a shed. Over the years, I’ve found that I
have a penchant for analogies and this session will continue in that vein. Don’t worry, though, I’m not
going to bore you with pictures of building sites or aphorisms from lean manufacturing.

Instead, I’m going to take you on a gentle walk on some mountainous paths in the south of France. There’ll
be red wine and unit testing; oak forests and scope creep; deep river gorges and CI pipelines. I’ll ask you
to walk with me and take a close look at the concepts that underpin our profession.

“We must learn to walk before we can run” is an age-old adage. We all learned to walk decades ago. Many of
us learnt how to develop software shortly thereafter. However, just as running is not simply walking faster,
neither is better software development simply working with the latest shiny tools. By slowing down,
observing our behaviour, considering alternatives, and deliberately practicing different approaches we can
re-learn how to develop software. Or confirm that how we’re doing it now is just fine.

As long-time ACCU conference chair, Jon Jagger, reminds us in the FAQ of the wonderful Cyber-Dojo: “Stop
trying to go faster; start trying to go slower. Don’t think about finishing; think about improving. Think
about practising.”

==== Bio

Seb has been involved in the full development lifecycle with experience that ranges from Architecture to
Support, from BASIC to Ruby. He’s a partner in Cucumber Limited, who help teams adopt and refine their agile
practices, with a particular focus on collaboration and automated testing.

Regular speaker at conferences and occasional contributor to software journals. Co-author of “BDD Books 1:
Discovery” (LeanPub), lead author of “The Cucumber for Java Book” (Pragmatic Programmers), and contributing
author to “97 Things Every Programmer Should Know” (O’Reilly).

He blogs at cucumber.io and tweets as @sebrose.
