////
.. title: Keynote Speakers
.. description: ACCU 2020 Keynote Speakers
.. type: text
////


[[PatriciaAas]]
== Patricia Aas

image::/images/2020/patricia_aas.jpg[Patricia Aas image, width=250, float=right]

Patricia is a programmer and trainer that has worked on, among other things, two browsers (Opera
and Vivaldi) and embedded telepresence endpoints for Cisco. Her focus on the end user has led
her work more and more toward privacy and security, and she has recently started her own
company, TurtleSec, hoping to contribute positively to the infosec and {cpp} communities. She is
the organizer of the Oslo {cpp} User Group and an admin in the #include<{cpp}> organization
hoping to improve diversity and inclusion in the {cpp} community.


[[EmilyBache]]
== Emily Bache

image::/images/2020/emily_bache.jpg[Emily Bache image, width=250, float=right]

Emily Bache is a Technical Agile Coach with ProAgile. She helps teams to improve their coding
and testing skills, including Test-Driven Development.  Emily lives in Gothenburg, Sweden, but
is originally from the UK. She is the author of "The Coding Dojo Handbook" and often speaks at
international conferences.

twitter: @emilybache

blog: http://coding-is-like-cooking.info/



[[KevlinHenney]]
== Kevlin Henney

image::/images/2020/kevlin_henney.jpg[Kevlin Henney image, width=200, float=right]

Kevlin is an independent consultant, trainer, reviewer and writer. His development interests are
in programming, people and practice. He has been a columnist for various magazines and web
sites, a contributor to open source software and a member of more committees than is probably
healthy (it has been said that "a committee is a cul-de-sac down which ideas are lured and then
quietly strangled"). He is co-author of two volumes in the *Pattern-Oriented Software
Architecture* series and editor of *97 Things Every Programmer Should Know* and the forthcoming
*97 Things Every Java Programmer Should Know*.


[[SeanParent]]
== Sean Parent

image::/images/2020/sean_parent.jpg[Sean Parent image, width=250, float=right]


Sean Parent is a senior principal scientist and software architect for Adobe’s mobile digital
imaging group and Photoshop. Sean has been at Adobe since 1993 when he joined as a senior
engineer working on Photoshop and later managed Adobe’s Software Technology Lab. In 2009 Sean
spent a year at Google working on Chrome OS before returning to Adobe. From 1988 through 1993
Sean worked at Apple, where he was part of the system software team that developed the
technologies allowing Apple’s successful transition to PowerPC.
